Well there was a lot of work and now we know how to pass data from a parent to the child and how to work
with that, how to validate it and so on.
Now what if we want to do it the other way around?
Let's say here in our child, we want to execute a function, we want to pass
an event to our parent component so that the parent component gets informed about something or gets
a new value.
So let's say in our user detailed component here where I right now output the name, I want to have a button
which allows me to reset the name
and here, I want to execute a click function or on click,
I want to execute a function called resetName.
Now for that of course I need to add it here,
resetName and resetName should somehow change my name,
so here I'll set this, my name equal to Max.
Now here's an important note,
it's perfectly fine to access your property like this,
it's a property of this vue component here in the end
but if that weren't a primitive, so no string, number or boolean but instead especially if that were an object
or an array,
keep in mind that object and arrays are reference types which means they only exist in memory once
and the variables or properties
storing them actually only store a pointer to a place in memory.
So if you pass an object or array from your parent to the child component, you're actually passing the
pointer to that place in memory.
Hence if you change it in the child component, you're changing the object in memory which only exists
once,
so you're also changing it in your parent component.
Now here that would actually be helpful because I want to reset the name and I could do it from my child
component and get it updated in the parent component automatically
but oftentimes that will not be what you want
and while in this case it won't happen because you simply pass a string which is passed by copying
it and not by passing a pointer
but it's important to keep this in mind, this difference between reference types and primitive types.
So here we have a string and I'm now setting it back to Max when I click the reset name button,
this is nice
and if we have a look at this application here, you can see I can change it to Anna
and now I can reset it, works fine but I also want to pass this back to the parent component which now
if I change the name, it doesn't reset it because in the parent component, that name is still Anna.
Therefore well it's not changing it, it's not passing it again because in the parent component the name
didn't change, it's still Anna,
I hope this is clear,
we only changed it in the child component.
So we need to inform the parent component that the name did indeed change and to do so, we will need
to emit a custom event, emitting a custom event may sound complicated but it is not. In each vue instance
and keep in mind, components only extend the vue instance so they are kind of instances of vuejs, you get
access to the emit event or emit method I should say. With the dollar sign, we can see that this is a
built in method vuejs gives us, we could use it again in every component, in every vue instance
and this allows me to emit a custom event just like that.
Now on emit, I specify the name of the event I want to emit and here it's name was reset
for example, choose whatever name you like.
As a second argument, you can pass some data,
so here is this
my name, the updated name. That emits an event, now in the parent component, in the user vue file,
we can listen to that,
how do we listen to an event? Like we listen to all events on the selector of my user detail component
which is the component emitting the event,
I can add an event listener with v-on or shortcut @ and then the name of the event, remember the name
is name was reset,
so here I can listen to name was reset like this and then I can execute some code.
Now I could execute a method here or I can simply say name, which is the property I'm using to store
the name in the user component equals $event where $event refers to the data
which was passed through the event
and remember, I'm passing the updated name here as data.
So if I do this and reload my application, you can see I can change my name to Anna,
I can reset it
and now I can change it again because now it was updated in the user component. And we can actually see
this if I simply print that in my user component here, let's say below the button, I have name is and
then I output the name in the parent component here,
if I do this we see, let's reload, name is Max,
change it,
it changes to
Anna in both components and up on resetting, it changes back.
And before we had the behavior, I can demonstrate this by removing the event that this will not, well
was not the case,
we changed it,
we reset it and it stayed Anna in the parent component nonetheless.
So now we're emitting our customer event and we're listening to it in the parent component
and this is how we can pass data from the child to the parent
and not only the other way around.